foreign
a lot of time doing because like
everyone's familiar with saster
um but they might be maybe less familiar
with um saster fund yeah um and and the
fact that you know I you're a full-time
investor even though like a full-time
like a full-time investor plus a
full-time like you know Media Company
impresario here so I guess that's like
maybe two full times which is probably
not surprising
um but maybe what you can do is kind of
like you know share a little bit about
how you started kind of like doing
investing and um and like maybe what
inspired disaster fun and kind of How
It's differentiated from kind of other
folks out there
sure I I find a lot of this stuff boring
but I know people find it interesting so
I'll answer your question right so
um yeah uh uh well let's see uh just
there's just I think Founders should an
executive should learn a lot about how
investing works right um there is it's
just um but my story so so yeah so after
I left Adobe
um uh one of my investors a fund called
storm Ventures asked me to join
um I went there I I worked there for two
years and it was a great a great
opportunity to really learn to invest
um and it went pretty well so my first
investment was pipedrive that ended up
selling for 1.5 billion yeah
um my second was that a Vista pickup
yeah they bought it for cash that was
the first one so I learned a lot from
that the second one was algolia which is
doing hundreds of millions and is worth
three billion today which will go IPO
when we come out of this search as a
service API
um the third one was talk desk which is
worth 10 billion today
um the fourth one is what became
Greenhouse which is worth about a bill
over a billion dollars today
um the fifth one was sales Loft which as
you know sold for well over two billion
dollars last year right so I was kind of
five for five in the beginning and had a
few other pretty good ones too
um I actually didn't you didn't know
back then that they would be so good
um but those ended up aggregate on the
aggregate being fairly insane outcomes
and then in 2016 I kind of struck out on
my own for a variety of reasons
um got harder but still done done pretty
darn well and I try to do three or four
Investments a year of like one to four
million
um the world's changed it got harder
during the boom right from late 2020 to
early 2022 when everything got insane
um so I kind of slowed down a bit and
now I'm behind I actually have too much
money as do some I actually have it's
interesting interesting for for Founders
or Founders to be actually probably have
too much money to invest now
um and would love to do you know four
great investments in the first half of
next year if if I can find them
um it is it's a really interesting topic
may not be what you want to chat about
of dry powder there's a lot there was a
lot of talk about too much dry powder a
lot now people aren't talking about it
anymore because VCS that are do later
stage stuff are just terrified
they're terrified
um but there's a lot of for folks that
have been around for a while like me
here's something for Founders to know
for folks that do seed uh up to late
seed up to early a folks that have been
doing this for I started investing in
2013. so anyone that's been doing it
since 2015 or so they're excited to
invest now folks that started more
recently are declined and so not even
just that it's just like it's still
pretty good like like
good good companies today are still
worth five billion dollars like if you
invest it at 10 million valuation and
get Labs worth 5 billion in Hershey
Corps with six and Mongo's worth eight
you could still make money
so maybe not as much as last year but so
folks that have been doing seed for a
while that have some some have some
returns some hits right yeah maybe
they're worth half of what they were
last year but but we know how to do it
but folks have started investing more
recently actually no matter what they
claim to their LPS their portfolios may
have like nose dived right oh yeah
um but um but uh yeah even with a market
adjustments my current batch of
companies is at 4.4 X so like that's
still good like you can still make money
if you if you quintuple your investors
money right so so that's why hunt out
investors now that have been around for
a while hunt out investors that aren't
scared uh if you're early stage they'll
invest but late stage oh my God I I I'm
I've been stunned the last 30 days how
much worse and I just wrote about it on
Saturday how much worse late stage
investing is
um and this is why there's so many
layoffs in the industry it's not
sometimes these companies are struggling
but for the most part CEOs are waking up
to the fact that there's just no more
money coming
yeah like what what what used to be like
okay this is good for 24 months now it's
like no that actually might be enough
for 36 months it might be enough
yeah it might be it might be it right so
so exactly so like just you know read
tune your spreadsheet a little bit there
and say like oh okay gosh like I guess
we can't beat that upside down right we
can't be that upside and then like
everyone if and then I can go back to
the point but basically what if you're
wondering what happened to layoffs like
what stripe said is like was transparent
and true basically everyone doubled
their hiring last year everyone doubled
their hiring
um and so best case they're freezing
hiring now because they don't need twice
as many people today and capital was so
cheap and there was just so much Capital
that every every VP was like well they
hit this crazy plan I need 100 more reps
I need I need 100 million dollar
marketing budget I need a thousand csms
and yeah when Capital seemed to be
infinite you just gave it to them right
you just gave it to them but but the
thing is people hired 50 more people
than they needed last year when I look
at the go back at the head counts of the
later stage companies I've invested in
all of them doubled their head count
even some of the most conservative and
lowest burned ones doubled their head
count last year and they didn't no one
needed to like let's be honest no one
really needed to double you you do need
to grow your sales team to meet your
plan and but you didn't need we didn't
really need to double our head count it
was too fast it wasn't just the money it
would have been fine if we raised all
the money and left it in the bank
right but we didn't right we just we
just doubled we doubled the head
countries hate people a lot more and we
paid people a lot more there's a lot of
inflation especially in sales
yeah I think that like here's the thing
I think one of the things I've come to
realize as as like it's funny like
there's like microeconomic actors like
you know people walking down the street
making a decision as to whether or not
they're like you know gonna buy a hot
dog or not and then there's like
macroeconomic actors which is like drum
pal or whatever and then there's kind of
like medium economic actors which is
like startup Founders and and what have
you
um and you know I think the the thing
there is like everyone's got a boss
right and I talk with my investors about
this a lot where like you raise this
money not to just like have it sit in
the bank because your investor is you
know like the the deal there was to
deploy that to then turn it into ARR
growth such that it could go to the next
markup you know such that it could
impact their irr which is exactly what
the LPS want and so on and so forth so I
think you'd have to have had pretty
strong intestinal fortitude to to
essentially make a trade like that and
say hey hey I'm going to raise a bunch
of money in this you know these frothy
times and I'm literally gonna sit on it
Warren Buffett style and then wait to
deploy it later on well you're right I
think I think that was like pretty some
did something
like high five to you man like God Bless
but like those were probably pretty
spicy board meetings while you were
sitting there like you know sitting on
your cash cash pile you know they want
spicy I mean I've got one I know that
that's actually really accelerated in
the back half of this year that's
sitting on 100 months of capital when I
just got got there they're still burning
almost nothing some did uh
uh and typically that happened when a
company really didn't need a dollar and
someone just offered pay an insane price
and that and the culture didn't change I
I think your point though is really is
really important which is part of the
overhang is you're right is that you
know at Peak 2021 investors just told
you to spend it all now as Founders it's
your job to do the right thing like you
but but literally the messages you got
to say they're 180 degrees from today
would be an understatement like I don't
know what's more than 180 from like it's
like in the upside down in inside out
now and like no one really cares if you
grow if you don't if as long as you
don't need any more money but the advice
was horrific at the time that folks got
last year were like horrific advice was
no matter how fast you were growing it
wasn't fast enough spend more and and
the in all fairness the public markets
were reflective of that right the public
markets only cared about growth so VCS
only did but really many of the best VCS
did not give that advice I did not give
that advice I didn't tell anyone to
spend any more money I told people the
opposite last year I'm like this is as
good as it will ever be in your lifetime
um but yes VCS are to blame for things
today but maybe not always for the
knee-jerk versions you hear on Twitter
it's that it's that toxic advice they
have to be held responsible for that
toxic advice to spend it all
yeah but I mean like like I'm I'm not
here to like you know be an apologist
for for Venture investors because like
you know Lord knows they don't need it
but you know their LPS were expecting
the same sort of thing right and at the
same time no no no no no no no no that
if you really want to get into the the
atomic piece yes LPS did fuel it but LPS
don't care whether you deploy how how
much the Company Burns or anything right
they just want strong reliable returns
um LPS don't do not are not really to
blame for anything
um and the markup the markup activity
you described is the one thing where LPS
work to blame
um historically in my investing career
LPS were always skeptical of markups
they always looked and and many funds
historically in the old days didn't even
do markups right and then markups became
institutionalized and what happened but
LPS will always be like whatever I
remember when I raised my first own fund
um back in 2016 the LPS literally didn't
care about anything came like it doesn't
matter I'm betting on the future right
markups don't matter companies go up and
down companies raise at 100 or 200 and
then fail but then LPS last year all
started to report it as is top LPS last
year reported had 90 average irr
so they got drunk on this too and they
fueled it and they took this stuff
seriously but no VCS do play to their
own investors but their own investors
are one layer less than the weeds right
they're less than the wheat
yeah and so um just kind of as we're
kind of wrapping up on on time here
Jason when when you say it sounds like
you you're saying that you have a bunch
of you know dry dry powder that you're
sitting on and you're looking for um to
make you know generally you do three to
four Investments a year One what was
that what is three to four Investments a
year one to four million one to four
million dollars
um maybe you can kind of share a little
bit about like you know how saster fund
is like differentiated from other kind
of early stage kind of seasons in any
way shape or form
um the only thing the only thing that's
differentiated you tell me what you
really think is that you get me For
Better or Worse right that's the only
thing that's differentiated as me I
don't think that firms are
differentiated that much a little bit
look I mean saster is a decent brand
even today right and and that can help
with recruiting like people do like
saster right so it certainly does help
to be you know look having sequoia or
Excel on your cap table helps and and uh
whether it should or shouldn't having
disaster sure certainly helps with
recruiting Executives it is it is a it
is a good indicator and its Founders
should seek that out like at the margin
pick a brand because each time you raise
Capital you know you only get so much
for that but do the best you can with
that slice but the honest answer is
beyond a brand you get me and that's
about it right and I have pros and cons
so you should I've I only invest in
Founders that really really want me this
is what I've learned over the years in
every every every month I'll do a favor
meeting I'll get it I'll get an email
from another VC but like can you meet
with the startup and I'll be like do
they know saster and they'll be like not
really and I'd be like ah I really and
I'll do the meeting and it just never
works out right it never works out all
the all the ones I've done uh
uh I have been from saster super fans
and if you are a saster super fan and
you've read saster and you think my
honesty and direct approach and the
ability to help you recruit is what you
want then email me like seek me out if
you don't think that I could add any
value maybe I had negative value
um do not do not seek me out and that's
that's cool uh Venture is only so
lucrative and it's only so interesting
and I would rather do fewer Investments
with Founders that want me than than
than be out there and like to maybe to
tie it together you know Venture is
sales right and there's different sales
strategies right and mine is 100 inbound
I failed it outbound
and I failed it outbound as an investor
every outbound deal I've done either one
failed and I gave up and so I just wait
and hopefully each year three or four
a couple good Founders great Founders
pick me if that's all you really have to
to do in investing is like all the
meetings don't matter nothing matters
other than that a couple great people
pick you and I will tell you I'll I'll
that's where I'm different and you know
to finish the thread if you're curious
like
you know you can meet a thousand
Founders a year you can meet one like
the other one the other ones don't
matter it's not a volume game it's not
tiger Global made it look like it they
had a good play but really the great
ones they you know in 20 minutes in fact
you often know before you meet them
not always but often right the way they
communicate the way they share data the
way they share metrics the way they
share their Vision not all of them but
so many of the best ones are so Crystal
Clear on how they're going to get there
why they're going to get there those are
the ones that you want want to invest in
and those are the ones you want to work
for as a VP or a leader you want to work
for the ones with that vision and the
ability to express where they're going
in a way that makes your jaw drop
um and if you're not seeing that from
your boss find another boss find another
CEO to go work more right I I get that
we've had the benefit of having like
Nick meta from gainsight Kyle Porter
from sales Loft Manny Medina from
Outreach kind of do Fireside shots and
like Yeah The Clarity of thinking and
communication and kind of leadership is
is is you know next level
foreign
[Music]